Define Cryptography

In information security, cryptography refers to the study of mathematical techniques to achieve goals
such as confidentiality, integrity, authentication, non-repudiation, etc. It does not mean that it provides
information security - rather a subset of techniques.

Describe Symmetric Key / Private Key

Sender and receiver share a common (private) key
Encryption and decryption is done using the private key
This is also known as conventional/shared-key/single-key cryptography

Describe Asymmetric Key / Public Key

Every user has a private key and a public key
encryption is done using the public key and ecryption using private key
also called two-key cryptography

What are the main functions of private key encryption

generate a key, encrypt, and decrypt

What are the key points of hash functions?

h(x) -> hash
hash is fixed length (16,20,32 bytes)
h(x) is fast / cheap
given hash, cannot compute x
given x, cannot find y so that h(x) == h(y)

What is a certificate?

A digital certificate is an electronic document used to prove the ownership of a public key.

What elements does a certificate include?

The certificate includes information about the key, information about the identity of its owner (subject),
and the digital signature of an entitiy that has verified the certificate's contents (issuer).

What are some reasons why some people are opposed to digital rights management (DRM)?

Many people are opposed to DRM because they feel it puts too much power in the hands of:
content creators, DRM technology providers, and government. They are concerned that DRM technology could be
used in an oppressive way.

What is the vulnerability in DRM systems? Briefly describe it.

The vulnerability in DRM systems is called the analog hole. The idea is that DRM systems are tied to the software
being distributed. If, for example, Alice loses the decrypted file, she must purchase another one. Another example
is if Alice decides to record the mp3 by some other means. This copied mp3 does not have DRM on it so others may
download this copy for free.

What is the purpose of a Trusted Platform Module (TPM)?

TPM's provide assurance that a specific software stack was loaded. In other words, it helps us understand
the state and behavior of a system we cannot fully control.

List some approaches to Anti-Piracy

Keep a certified list of customers, link the software to the hardware, link the software to a movable piece of
hardware that cannot easily be copied, software watermarking: embed a secret into the software which can be retrieved
on demand.

What are some different types of software watermarks?

Static data (i.e. strings), dynamic software, dynamic data, easter egg, dynamic execution trace, others,..
(fingerprinting, license mark)